2/7
TOPICS
	Linked Lists
	Generics
	Cloning

LINKED LISTS
Linear data structure where each element is a separate object
Doubly linked: Each element (node) has the data and two references, next and previous
Singly Linked: Each element (node) has the data and a reference to the next node
	(The last node has a null reference)
Linked lists are dynamic - the number of nodes can grow/shrink on demand
	Good for dealing with an unknown # of objects
	Bad for direct access to an individual node
		(If you want a particular item, you must start at the head and hit each node until you reach the desired node)
	Uses more memory than an array
	Better than arrays for adding/deleting nodes

GENERICS
"Generics allow you to abstract over types" --> This means that the type (int, String, etc) is abstracted away from the object in question, that is, it has been predetermined and you don't need to specify when you're using said object.

Why are generics beneficial?
We don't *need* generics per say, as we could just use a type cast. However, implementing generics allows the compiler to check the correctness at compile-time, rather than at a single point in the code with a cast.

Relying on the compiler in this way improves readability and robustness.

***note about sybtypes***
In general, if Foo is a subtype (subclass or subinterface) of Bar, and G is some generic type declaration, it is not the case that G<Foo> is a subtype of G<Bar>. This is probably the hardest thing you need to learn about generics, because it goes against our deeply held intuitions.


2/20
TOPICS
	Hash Tables

HASH TABLES
Maps keys to values for highly efficient lookup
	Implementation 1: Array of linked lists and hash code function. Map the given hash code to an index in the array. At a given index, there are a linked list of keys and values.
	Implementation 2: Balanced binary tree.


3/2
TOPICS
	Stacks and Queues

STACK
LIFO (last in first out) like a stack of paper
pop(): remove top item; push(item): add item; peek(): return the top of the stack; isEmpty(): return true if empty
Does not offer O(1) time to access the nth item, but it does allow for constant time add/removes, and doesn't require shifting elements around

QUEUE
FIFO (first in first out) like waiting in a line, first come first serve
queue(item): adds item; dequeue(): removes item; peek(): returns first item's data; isEmpty(): return true if empty


3/4
TOPICS
	Trees and Graphs

TREES
Each tree has a root node with zero or more child nodes. Each child node has zero or more child nodes.

BINARY TREE
Each node has a maximum of two children

BINARY SEARCH TREE
all left descendants <= n < all right descendants. True for all nodes.

BALANCED TREE
O(logN) time for insert and find

COMPLETE BINARY TREE
Every level of the tree is filled, meaning every node has a child from left-to-right, except for maybe the last one

FULL BINARY TREE
A binary tree which every node has zero or two children. No node has only one child.

PERFECT BINARY TREE
Full and complete binary tree: all leaf (nodes w/o children) nodes are at the same level and that level has the max # of nodes

TREE TRAVERSAL
In-Order: left branch, current node, right branch. Will visit the nodes of a binary search tree in ascending order.
Pre-Order: visits current node before child nodes (l, r). The root node is always the first node visited.
Post-Order: visits the current node after child nodes (l,r). The root node is always the last node visited.

BINARY HEAP
Min-heap: a complete binary tree where each node is smaller than it's children. Root is minimum value.
Max-heap: a complete binary tree where each node is larger than it's children. Root is maximum value.

PREFIX TREE
n-ary tree in which characters are stored at each node. each path down the tree may represent a word.
Null nodes are used to indicate complete words.
Useful for prefix lookups.


GRAPHS
A collection of nodes with edges between (some of) them. A tree is a connected graph w/o cycles.


3/15
TOPICS
	Javascript:
		Review
		Scope
		Closures












